src/mdx/posts/How-to-use-useState-Hook.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Hello World'
excerpt: 'Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Praesent elementum facilisis leo vel fringilla est ullamcorper eget. At imperdiet dui accumsan sit amet nulla facilities morbi tempus.'
coverImage: '/img/blog/hello-world.jpg'
coverImageAlt: 'Example Cover Image'
coverImageWidth: 960
coverImageHeight: 480
date: '2020-03-16T05:35:07.322Z'
---

# How to use useState Hook in React.js

Hooks were introduced in React version 16.8. In order to replace the conventional this.state in Class component.

## Steps of Using `useState` Hook

### Step 1

We need to import the Hook from react

```js
import { useState } from "react";
```

### Step 2

Declare a const variable and assign the useState function as follow

```js
// conventional way to use sate
const [state, setState] = useState(InitialState);
```

### Step 3

How to set state and use state, The useState Hook returne's two parameters one to set the state and the other to get the state value.

```js
import React, { useState } from 'react';

function Example() {
  // Declare a new state variable, which we'll call "name"
  const [name, setName] = useState("");

  return (
    <div>
      {name&&<p>You {Name}</p>)
      <label for="name">name:</label>
      <input type="text" id="name" name="name" value={name}
        onChange={()=>setName(e.target.value)}/>
    </div>
  );
}
```

Traditional ways of using state, This method is a bit tricky use a the beginning, Becouse it has the key word `this` that make thing complex

```js
class Example extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.state = {
      name: ""
    };
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <div>
        {name&&<p>You {Name}</p>)
        <label for="name">name:</label>
        <input type="text" id="name" name="name" value={this.state.name}
        onChange={()=>this.setState({name:e.target.value})}/>
      </div>
    );
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Removed Some unwanted blog post

src/mdx/posts/How-to-use-useState-Hook.mdx, after:

---
title: 'How to use useState Hook in React.js'
excerpt: 'How to use useState Hook in React.js ~ Hooks were introduced in React version 16.8. In order to replace the conventional this.state in Class component.'
date: '2021-08-16T05:35:07.322Z'
---

# How to use useState Hook in React.js

Hooks were introduced in React version 16.8. In order to replace the conventional this.state in Class component.

## Steps of Using `useState` Hook

### Step 1

We need to import the Hook from react

```js
import { useState } from "react";
```

### Step 2

Declare a const variable and assign the useState function as follow

```js
// conventional way to use sate
const [state, setState] = useState(InitialState);
```

### Step 3

How to set state and use state, The useState Hook returne's two parameters one to set the state and the other to get the state value.

```js
import React, { useState } from 'react';

function Example() {
  // Declare a new state variable, which we'll call "name"
  const [name, setName] = useState("");

  return (
    <div>
      {name&&<p>You {Name}</p>)
      <label for="name">name:</label>
      <input type="text" id="name" name="name" value={name}
        onChange={()=>setName(e.target.value)}/>
    </div>
  );
}
```

Traditional ways of using state, This method is a bit tricky use a the beginning, Becouse it has the key word `this` that make thing complex

```js
class Example extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.state = {
      name: ""
    };
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <div>
        {name&&<p>You {Name}</p>)
        <label for="name">name:</label>
        <input type="text" id="name" name="name" value={this.state.name}
        onChange={()=>this.setState({name:e.target.value})}/>
      </div>
    );
  }
}
```
