src/mdx/posts/Min-Cost-to-Connect-All-Points.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Hello World'
excerpt: 'Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Praesent elementum facilisis leo vel fringilla est ullamcorper eget. At imperdiet dui accumsan sit amet nulla facilities morbi tempus.'
coverImage: '/img/blog/hello-world.jpg'
coverImageAlt: 'Example Cover Image'
coverImageWidth: 960
coverImageHeight: 480
date: '2020-03-16T05:35:07.322Z'
---

# 1584. Min Cost to Connect All Points

You are given an array points representing integer coordinates of some points on a 2D-plane, where points[i] = [xi, yi].

The cost of connecting two points [xi, yi] and [xj, yj] is the manhattan distance between them: |xi - xj| + |yi - yj|, where |val| denotes the absolute value of val.

Return the minimum cost to make all points connected. All points are connected if there is exactly one simple path between any two points.

Input: points = [[0,0],[2,2],[3,10],[5,2],[7,0]]

Output: 20

![graph](https://assets.leetcode.com/uploads/2020/08/26/c.png)

## Explanation:
We can connect the points as shown above to get the minimum cost of 20.
Notice that there is a unique path between every pair of points.

```python3
class Solution:
    def minCostConnectPoints(self, points: List[List[int]]) -> int:
        d, res = {(x, y): float('inf') if i else 0 for i, (x, y) in enumerate(points)}, 0
        while d:
            x, y = min(d, key=d.get)  # obtain the current minimum edge
            res += d.pop((x, y))      # and remove the corresponding point
            for x1, y1 in d:          # for the rest of the points, update the minimum manhattan distance
                d[(x1, y1)] = min(d[(x1, y1)], abs(x-x1)+abs(y-y1))
        return res
```

## Code walkthrough
Simple MST approch to solve approch to solve this problem.

Commit message:

Removed Some unwanted blog post

src/mdx/posts/Min-Cost-to-Connect-All-Points.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Min Cost to Connect All Points'
excerpt: 'You are given an array points representing integer coordinates of some points on a 2D-plane, where points[i] = [xi, yi].The cost of connecting two points [xi, yi] and [xj, yj] is the manhattan distance between them: |xi - xj| + |yi - yj|, where |val| denotes the absolute value of val.'
date: '2022-04-25T05:35:07.322Z'
---

# 1584. Min Cost to Connect All Points

You are given an array points representing integer coordinates of some points on a 2D-plane, where points[i] = [xi, yi].

The cost of connecting two points [xi, yi] and [xj, yj] is the manhattan distance between them: |xi - xj| + |yi - yj|, where |val| denotes the absolute value of val.

Return the minimum cost to make all points connected. All points are connected if there is exactly one simple path between any two points.

Input: points = [[0,0],[2,2],[3,10],[5,2],[7,0]]

Output: 20

![graph](https://assets.leetcode.com/uploads/2020/08/26/c.png)

## Explanation:
We can connect the points as shown above to get the minimum cost of 20.
Notice that there is a unique path between every pair of points.

```python3
class Solution:
    def minCostConnectPoints(self, points: List[List[int]]) -> int:
        d, res = {(x, y): float('inf') if i else 0 for i, (x, y) in enumerate(points)}, 0
        while d:
            x, y = min(d, key=d.get)  # obtain the current minimum edge
            res += d.pop((x, y))      # and remove the corresponding point
            for x1, y1 in d:          # for the rest of the points, update the minimum manhattan distance
                d[(x1, y1)] = min(d[(x1, y1)], abs(x-x1)+abs(y-y1))
        return res
```

## Code walkthrough
Simple MST approch to solve approch to solve this problem.
